Good afternoon.
I had way too many brownies at lunch and
if you're like me you'll probably just
knock right off in about an hour here.
But it's the last couple of sessions this
week and the purpose of this session is
to present to you some new technology
that's in Panther called SearchKit.
And the value of SearchKit I think is
that it provides some functionality
that's been missing in the system
first of all and that wasn't
available to you as a developer.
And secondly if you can leverage that
functionality in your application you
can really deliver a very consistent
user experience for searching.
Not to mention the fact that you'll
have a search engine that's already
written for you in your application.
So to talk you through the specifics of
this new technology in Panther I want
to introduce Wayne Loofbro.
To the stage.
Thanks.
Thanks, John.
So welcome to the SearchKit session.
If you're having trouble finding a seat,
there are some up front.
So today we're going to talk a bit about
SearchKit and how it's used in Mac OS X.
It's actually been used for a while,
even before it's been
released as a public API.
A bit about what it can do and how
to add search to your application.
So specifically,
we'll talk about what SearchKit is,
some of the challenges of providing
searching that SearchKit solves,
and then how to go about doing
indexing in three steps and how
to do searching in three steps.
And then we'll talk a bit
about an application of
SearchKit called Summarization,
which provides a specific API that
you may also be interested
in using in your application.
So where does SearchKit fit
into the technology framework?
So you've all seen this diagram by now.
In this diagram,
we also show core services in the middle,
the middle green one there.
And that's precisely
where SearchKit fits in.
So this is a layer above Darwin and
below the level of the frameworks.
So just a bit of history.
Some of you actually may already
be familiar with SearchKit if you
looked at all at V-Twin or AIAT.
This is a technology that
was available in Mac OS 9.
It was called the
Apple Information Access Toolkit,
if you can believe it.
And it's a C++ API.
It used its own custom data types,
and it was a rather complex API.
In fact, I think the manual for
it was about 300 pages.
So we wanted to improve this in Mac OS X,
and so what we did was we created
a very streamlined C API that's
based on the core foundation types.
It has about maybe 40 or 50 calls,
and it's much shorter documentation.
So as I mentioned,
SearchKit is used in a number of
the applications in the system.
In particular, in Address Book,
the sort of searches you type
that lets you find addresses in
your Address Book uses SearchKit.
In Apple Help, you want to know how do
I connect to the internet?
Apple Help will use SearchKit to
find all the documents that
are relevant to that query.
In Apple Mail,
it's also used to search mailboxes.
Each mailbox is indexed using SearchKit,
and you can search individual indexes
or all of them at the same time,
and you get relevance-ranked results.
and in the Finder in
the content searching.
So when you do content
searching in the Finder,
SearchKit does the underlying
search and again you get relevance
ranked results based on the contents
of the documents on your disk.
So now to demonstrate a
few of the applications,
I'd like to invite David Casseres,
the Find by Content tech lead.
Thank you very much.
I'm going to do,
if we can have demo one here.
I'm going to do a couple of
very brief demonstrations.
First I'll show you Mail.
Where we have a few mailboxes and
I can put a little text right in here.
I type in iTunes,
I find the one message in all
those mailboxes that has it.
I can type in Beatles.
[Transcript missing]
and several there.
Got a Switch commercial.
Got an article.
Yes, it does have the word switch in it.
And because this is mail,
it's doing prefix searching.
So I can type.
There,
and I get the ones that have Abbey Road.
All I typed was A-B-B.
That's mail.
Now in the Finder,
I can search some files.
I have a set of demo files here.
There are 770 files in here,
and they are previously indexed,
so you're not going to see
the initial indexing process.
But the Finder does something
much more complicated.
It uses a couple of other frameworks
to go through to do something
complicated with SearchKit,
and it will first search
the existing index,
then start validating the index to
make sure that it's still up to date,
and it will search repeatedly
while it's doing that.
And you'll see that it's all very quick.
There we are.
Relevance-ranked results.
We've got all kinds of files here.
We've got PDFs.
We've got
Text files, and so forth and so on.
This works in practically any
language you can use with the Mac.
and it's very much improved in
Panther and that's fine by content.
Thank you, David.
So there are a number of challenges
to providing search in SearchKit.
In particular,
doing relevance ranked results.
You don't just want the documents
that match a particular query,
you also want them ranked by
how relevant they are to what
it is you were asking for.
Being able to support multiple languages,
as David mentioned,
with SearchKit you can index a
large number of different languages.
These are human languages,
not computer languages,
and get correct results.
We need to be flexible
about what a document means.
It could be a document on your disk,
but it could also be a message in
mail or an address in address book.
And we have to be flexible
about the kinds of queries.
You saw an example of prefix searching,
as well as you can do word-based
searching and some other ones
that I'll talk about in a bit.
So how does SearchKit deal
with some of these challenges?
Well,
one example that comes up in Apple help
is that you'd like to be able to
type in a query like "How do
I connect to the internet?" Now,
do you really mean to find documents
that contain the exact phrase "How
do I connect to the internet?" Well,
no, that's not what you're looking for.
What you want to know is documents
that are relevant to the query "How do
I connect to the internet?" So you're
not just doing a string matching search.
So what documents match this query?
Well, it's really hard to know without
breaking it first into words.
So that's what SearchKit does.
It breaks it into words.
But which document is
relevant to these words?
Is a document that contains the
words "do," "I," "to," and "the"
very relevant to the query?
Well, probably not.
It's probably not as relevant as
a document that contains "how,"
"connect," and "internet." And so
one of the things that SearchKit does
is to try to determine which words
in the query are most relevant to
what it is that you're looking for.
And it does this using
some statistical analysis.
So another challenge in SearchKit is
dealing with different languages.
So, it's fairly easy to break things into
words when you're dealing with English,
say, or a world or a language that
separates words by spaces.
But what if you're dealing with Japanese?
There are no spaces between words.
And so what SearchKit does is uses a
Japanese language analysis which was
developed by the folks in Apple Japan.
It's the language analysis framework.
And it uses this to do a
grammatical analysis of Japanese,
and then it can break
Japanese into words.
And then use the same statistical
techniques to then find
the most relevant document.
But what is a document?
Is a document just a
file on your hard disk?
Well,
that would be a fairly limited capability
if that's all you could look for.
But, you know,
so we do search text documents,
but we also search documents of other
file types such as Word and PDF and HTML.
But in addition,
we support searching items that
are within the application,
such as mail messages,
address book items,
or in your application,
really any object or maybe
an entry from a database.
Really anything that contains text can
be indexed and searched with SearchKit.
The other area of flexibility that
we need is in what a query is.
I already gave the example of a
natural language query such as
how do I connect to the internet.
But we also want to be able to do
prefix queries such as the one that
David demonstrated so that you can type
just the beginnings of words and even
in the middle of your typing you can
do a search and get relevant results
back without having to complete a word.
You also want to be able
to do a Boolean query.
In some cases you want to have
an exact match and so you'd be
able to construct a Boolean query.
And then there's a popular method used
in some of the internet search engines
of marking things with pluses and minuses
to indicate inclusion or exclusion.
And then as well, you might also want to
be able to find things.
You've already found some items,
and now you want to find other
items that are most like the
items you've already found.
And so we also support
a similarity search.
So you can provide documents as the input
and produce documents as the output.
So we talked a little bit about a typical
usage scenario for using SearchKit.
Really it's very simple.
You index the documents and
then you search the index.
And then we'll go into more
detail about that of course.
Really the index's only purpose,
the only purpose of creating an
index is to make searching fast.
You could certainly look through
all the text content of all
your documents to find things
if that's all you wanted to do,
but you'd be missing a couple things.
You'd be missing speed first of all,
but you'd also be missing the relevance
ranking and some of the statistical
analysis that goes into the index.
Once you've created an index,
you don't need the original
documents in order to do searching.
The index contains references
to those documents,
not the content itself.
But it also contains
statistical information about
the words in the documents.
And the index can be stored in memory,
if you like, for performance.
Or if you want it to be persistent,
because you're going to use it again,
then you could create it in a file.
The basic process of
indexing is pretty simple.
You provide the documents to SearchKit.
It analyzes the text
and updates the index.
The process of searching
is equally simple.
You provide it with a query
and the index to search,
and it searches the index
and returns results.
So that's the basic outline, of course,
and we'll go into more detail.
Indexing can be done
in three basic steps.
You open the index that
you'd like to search.
You add the documents to
the index and then flush it.
So opening the index, of course,
could be opening an existing
one or creating a new one.
Opening an existing one is pretty basic.
I won't bother talking about that.
Creating a new one,
there's a decision to be made about
what kind of index you want to create.
There are three different types.
The first is an inverted index.
This kind of an index maps the
terms or words in each document to
the document itself and provides
statistical information about them.
This kind of index is used for most
of the query kinds of searches.
A vector index maps the other way.
It maps documents to terms.
This kind of index is
actually seldom used.
More common is the third kind of index,
which is an inverted vector index,
which does both.
So you might ask, you know,
why not just always create
an inverted vector index?
Because it obviously has the
capabilities of the first two.
And really the answer is
just space and performance.
It takes a bit longer to create.
It has more information to put in it.
And it takes more space
on the disk or in memory.
So it turns out that for most purposes,
an inverted index is really the kind
that you're going to want to use,
both for performance reasons
and for space reasons.
But just breaking it down a bit more,
if you're doing ranked prefix
required or Boolean searching,
the four kinds that I talked about,
four of the kinds that I talked about,
then you really want to be
using an inverted index.
It'll pretty much do,
it'll give you the best
performance and size ratio.
If you're going to be
doing similarity searching,
it's okay to use an inverted index.
It will still work.
It's going to be a bit lower
performance in doing similarity
searches than the inverted,
sorry,
the inverted vector index is going to be.
But if you're only doing
similarity searching pretty seldom,
then that's probably the best choice.
If you're going to do a lot
of similarity searching,
then you probably want
an inverted vector index.
Okay, so we've either opened an
existing index or created one.
Now we gotta add the documents.
So as I mentioned before,
documents can be any of a
number of different kinds.
It could be something on your disk,
something inside your application.
For each of these documents,
what you provide is a document reference.
The index doesn't need to store a
lot about the document itself other
than a reference and the statistical
information that it wants to gather.
And when you get results back,
you're going to get references back
rather than the actual document itself.
These references are just URLs or
they're created from URLs,
I should say, to be more precise.
The other thing you need to provide is,
of course, the text of the document.
And there are a number
of ways to do this.
If you have a file,
such as the first example on the left,
Then you use a file call and reference
and that tells SearchKit that it's
something that it knows how to read.
And the text from the document
will be read automatically.
In addition, if you'd like it to handle
multiple file formats,
we have built-in support for
a number of them in SearchKit.
And all you need to do is
load the default extractors,
which is a call in SearchKit.
And that means whenever you read a file,
it will do the text extraction for you.
But if you'd like to
handle any kind of item,
in particular you want to handle
something that's inside your application,
or you have a document format
that we don't know about that you
know how to get this text from,
then you can provide
the text as a CFString.
That's the universal method.
And it can be,
the document reference at that point
can be any kind of scheme and any
kind of hierarchy that you'd like
to create within your application.
And then the last step is simply
flushing the index to disk or to memory.
And at that point, you're done indexing.
So it's actually pretty simple.
Now you're ready to search.
So searching has three
basic steps as well,
and I'll talk about each of those.
First, you create the search group.
Then you send the query to
SearchKit and process the results.
I just hit the blink button there.
OK.
So searching.
One thing that SearchKit supports
is the ability to have more than one
index to be searched at the same time.
Now you might ask why we do this.
One reason is to support
multiple attributes.
It might be that the objects
in your application have
not just one text attribute,
the content,
but they may have other text attributes.
Maybe it's a description of a movie
or maybe the additional attributes
that you'd like to index as well.
One example of this is in the Finder.
When FindMyContent does
indexing in the Finder,
it indexes not only
the names of the files,
but also the contents of the files.
And you'll see in these results
that the top few items there were
found because of their names.
The search was for quartz.
So a couple of files
had quartz in the name,
and the bulk of the files there
had quartz in the content.
So there are two indexes and
they get searched simultaneously.
So creating a search group allows you to
search multiple indexes at the same time.
Now you might ask why use a search group?
Why not just search each
index individually and then
combine the results somehow?
Well, the reason is--
Oh, I guess I gave an example.
Okay, let me give another example
here before I mention that.
Multiple containers is another reason
why you might create multiple indexes.
An example here is mail.
So in mail,
each mailbox is indexed distinctly.
So when you want to do an entire
content search for all the
mailboxes in mail at the same time,
it creates a search group in order
to search multiple mailboxes.
Now we'll get to the point
about normalizing ranking.
If you were to do searching on
individual indexes and try to
combine the results yourself,
the problem is that the relevance
ranking would only be relative to
the content of each individual index.
You haven't normalized the
rankings across all the indexes.
So by creating a search group,
the statistics are normalized
and then the documents you find
will be the most relevant across
all the different categories.
And of course it's possible to create
a search group with just one index
and that may be a common case as well.
Okay, so you've got your search group
created and now it's time to send the
query to SearchKit to do the search.
But we're not quite ready for that
because we have to determine what
kind of search we're going to do.
And the kinds, as I mentioned before,
are ranked, prefix, boolean, required,
and similarity searching.
Just to go into a little
more detail about each one,
Ranked supports kind of a
natural language kind of query.
So if you're trying to do
something like Apple Help does,
where you've got a large
number of documents,
you're trying to find the ones that
are most relevant from a sort of
English or other language point of view,
then this is the kind of search
you're going to want to do.
So the user can ask a question,
they can name a topic,
or they can provide just related words,
and it'll do a reasonably good
job of finding the documents
that are most relevant.
Again,
an example of this is in Apple Help.
Prefix searching allows you
to do the search as you type,
so if you want one of those
interfaces where as you type the
results come down like you'll see
in address book or in mail as well,
then this is the kind of
searching you'll want to do.
It's basically just like the previous
one except that it supports prefixes,
which has the advantage of
supporting searches you type.
One disadvantage it has is, of course,
you'll get more matches than might
be intended because even if you type
what seems like a complete word,
it may be the prefix of some other word,
and so you'll probably get more
results than you would otherwise.
An example, this is an address book.
Boolean searching is just
what you'd think it would be,
and/or not.
And you can combine
things with parentheses,
et cetera.
And this one's maybe less often used
because most users aren't really familiar
with doing this except advanced users.
But it is, in fact, supported in Mail.
So you'll notice if you type an
ampersand or a vertical bar in Mail,
it'll do Boolean searching.
And the way it does this is it looks
at the query that you typed in.
And if it contains any of those symbols,
then it sends it on as a Boolean search.
And otherwise,
it sends it on as a ranked-- or, sorry,
a prefix search.
And then required
searching is the last type,
and that allows you to
add pluses and minuses.
We don't have any examples in any
of the Apple apps of using this,
but it's a popular search technique
that's used on the internet.
And then similarity searching
is a different call.
For that one you provide
the sample documents.
You don't have any sort
of text query at all.
And SearchKit returns documents that are
similar to the ones that you provided it.
Okay,
so now we're ready to send the query.
We decided, let's say,
to do a ranked search in this case.
So you send the query to SearchKit.
SearchKit efficiently searches the
index and then returns the results.
And then the next step is, of course,
to process those results.
So the results contain a number of
bits of information that are helpful
in displaying the results to your user.
One is the document reference,
which is really the same
thing you provided it before.
And it's up to you what kind of a
hierarchy you want to create to make it
easy to find items in your application.
In this case, as an example,
I said mail message 21.
That's one way to identify a document.
You might have more of a hierarchy,
like which mailbox it's in.
And you could do it by
subject or something.
So it's up to you to then
map that back and say,
OK, these are the documents I want to
display based on that reference.
The second bit of information it returns
is the relevance ranking and this is of
course used in displaying your results.
And the third, in the case that you have
multiple indexes that you
were searching simultaneously,
then it's going to return a
reference to which index this
particular result came from.
The reason for that in the mail
example is you need to know,
well, I'll just go through all of them.
The document reference
tells you which message.
The relevance rank tells you, of course,
the relevance column.
And the third one I mentioned,
the index reference,
is to tell you which mailbox it came
from because it has multiple indexes
that it has to know where it came from.
So that's basically
searching in three steps.
And at that point, you've added searching
to your application.
So how easy is that?
Now, one of the things that SearchKit is
capable of doing if you use it in
just the right way is summarization.
But to make it easy,
we've brought that API up at a
higher level so that you can directly
do summarization of documents.
And I'd like to invite David back
up to talk about summarization.
Hello again.
Summarization is my
favorite feature of OS X,
and I'm wondering if I could see a show
of hands how many of you have discovered
the summary service in-- some of you,
not all of you.
It'll be my pleasure to show that off.
It's been,
we've had summarization as the service.
Since 10.1, and it became better in 10.2,
it'll be essentially the same in Panther.
Now we've provided this,
you heard me mention
Find My Content before,
and it's a high level
interface to SearchKit.
And it lives in App Services,
which you probably already linked to.
And you want to find a header called
findbycontent.h to see the syntax.
There's SearchKit.
There's FindByContent.
Find by Content called SearchKit.
Now to do summarization of text,
it uses a very simple technique
and it's using the SearchKit.
It's
indexing the sentences.
The document now is a sentence and
it takes that index and it searches
for the best sentences by using--it
constructs an idea of what is the
meaningful stuff in this document,
in this thing that we're summarizing.
Looks for that among the sentences
and gives you back the best ones.
So you see there it's
indexing and it's searching.
It's exactly like what Wayne described.
And here is the demo.
They should play a little music
while we walk back and forth here.
I have a weblog document here.
For an interesting thing
that I found on the web,
it's an article by a guy named
David Stutz that he wrote as part
of his farewell to Microsoft when
he quit working there.
I love it because it has this
great sentence at the end.
I don't know if you can read it.
He says, "Stop looking over your
shoulder and invent something."
But, you know,
when I get this on the web,
I don't really know if it's
something that I want to read or not.
It's kind of long.
So...
Here in Safari, I'm going to select all,
go to the Safari menu, Services,
Summarize.
And there's the summary.
And it's giving me a
default size summary.
I can read that.
Or I can take the slider here.
I can find the best sentence.
I can find the paragraph that
contained the best sentence.
I can zoom up a little bit to get more.
I can just scrub back and
forth and get more and less.
I can get the entire text like that.
Is that cool?
That's the demo.
But because it's a service,
a lot of people have never
even found it at all.
And this should be in your application.
By the fact that you're here at all,
I'm guessing that quite a few of you
have applications that are text-oriented.
So why would you use this?
Well, to begin with, it's useful,
as I just described.
You can make little thumbnails.
You can make these dynamic summaries
that a user can play around with.
and generally improve the
usefulness of your application
and you can advertise it.
And it's a lot of fun.
Text is not usually much fun.
Maybe you envy the graphics people
who can put all this wonderful
court stuff in their applications.
You can put summarization with
dynamic size summaries
and it's quite easy.
If you're doing a fixed size
summarization like to create
a set of thumbnails of text,
there's one function that you call.
You give it a CFString,
you tell it how many sentences you want.
If you pass zero, it'll figure out a good
number of sentences.
Gives you back a CFString.
It's that simple.
The resizable summarization like
what you saw there is twice as hard.
There are two functions you have to call.
There's two others,
but they're not interesting.
First function does all the hard work,
and you can do that before the
user even asks for a summary.
You can do that in the
background on a thread.
It does all of the analysis
of the text into sentences.
It does the indexing.
It gives back an object
that you can keep around.
And from that object,
you can construct the
different size summaries very,
very quickly as you saw.
One thing you should think of, though,
is that that object takes about as
much memory as the original text.
How does it work?
It works by some very simple stuff.
It's statistics on the
words in the sentences.
It's just SearchKit searching
like you saw Wayne doing.
And the key is that it's
analyzing the text into sentences.
And we do that probably as
well as anything that any
other code that I've seen.
We only keep complete sentences.
We throw out everything else.
And that makes the summary actually
come out better because it throws away
Page footers, it throws away little
headings and things.
So it's only keeping the real
sentences and it does not care
anything about meaning and grammar.
And that's summarization.
Thank you very much.
Thanks, David.
So as you've seen,
you can add searching to your
application fairly easily.
You can add summarization to
your application fairly easily.
And both of these APIs are
available in Mac OS X Panther.
Summarization is actually
available in Jaguar.
So SearchKit is a powerful
text searching framework that's
now available in Mac OS X.
It indexes anything that has text in it,
whether it's in your
application or on disk.
It provides powerful, fast searching.
and Summerization.
So now the cat's out of the
bag and it's up to you guys.
So I'd like to point to some other
sessions that may be of interest to you.
If you use Unicode in your application,
well, of course these sessions
have already occurred,
but for folks watching DVDs,
if you'd like to look at these sessions.
If you're using Unicode
in your application,
the session number 404,
Unicode for Japanese, Chinese,
and everything else.
If you're interested in
searching the address book,
then you probably want to use
the address book APIs rather
than the search code APIs.
And similarly, if you're interested in
providing Apple Help,
Apple Help uses search code underneath,
but you want to go look at the
session for Apple Help number 408.
And if you're interested in
indexing things off the internet,
then you'll probably want
to look at the session,
the Internet Technology Session on
the Advanced Foundation URL APIs.
And of course,
our friend John is the person to contact.
And for more information,
there is a SearchKit reference
that's available on the
ADC site for ADC members,
which is a free membership.
and as well you can look at the header
files on the Panther CD that you have.
And if you just go in
System Library Frameworks Core Services,
you'll see in the frameworks
folder there's a SearchKit folder
which has all the headers.
And those are fairly well
documented with comments as well.
And similarly you can look
at the Find My Content and
Summarization APIs there.